# Predictive-Modeling-of-Student-Performance-in-Moodle-LMS-using-Learning-Analytics

As part of our graduate studies in the Learning Analytics course, my colleague and I worked on a project to predict students' performance in Moodle LMS. This paper explores the use of learning analytics within Moodle to forecast student performance. We tested ten models to determine which ones best predicted course outcomes and final grades using data on student demographics, engagement, and academic results. The results revealed varying accuracy among the models, with Gradient Boosting and Random Forest performing the best, achieving approximately 92-96% accuracy. These findings suggest that predictive models can assist in identifying at-risk students, ultimately aiding teachers and students in improving academic outcomes. Further research could investigate additional factors affecting predictions, such as gender-based variations.

**Abstract**—This research paper explores the utilization of
learning analytics to predict students’ performance in Moodle
Learning Management System (LMS). This study aims to analyze
the accuracy of various predictive models in determining student
success in passing or failing a course and predicting their final
grades. The performance of ten different models was evaluated
using a dataset of students records within Moodle, including
demographic information, engagement patterns, and academic
outcomes. The results revealed significant variations in accuracy
across the models. The Gradient Boosting Classifier achieved
accuracy of 96.296% in predicting course outcomes, while the
Random Forest model demonstrated accuracy of 92.593%. In
terms of predicting final grades, the Random Forest Classifier
performed with an accuracy of 92.593%, and the Decision Tree
Classifier and Gradient Boosting Classifier also achieved with
92.593%, with other models also exhibiting reasonably good
accuracy. These findings provide valuable insights into the
potential of predictive modeling techniques for teachers and
students seeking to identify students in danger of not succeeding
and enhance their academic outcomes. Further research is
recommended to explore the underlying factors and additional
features among test scores that can contribute to predictive
modelling contributing to gender-based variations in student
success and to refine the models for improved performance.
